# CSI-ZG628T-Dissertation
BIT Pilani M.Tech 2nd year 2nd Sem Dissertation work<br>
<b>ABSTRACT</b><br>
Reliability of a website is a quality that is measured based on user experience. It appears to be simple phenomenon from the outside, but it takes constant effort in steering the moving parts of the systems and software behind the scene. Automation, monitoring and alerting of the system functions and effective communication among the systems and support personnel are few of the foundational requirements that attempts to solve the problem of site reliability. 

The choice of tools used to meet the above requirements becomes crucial to deploy such an eco-system. In this dissertation work, there is an attempt to study Ansible, a Python module, as the Automation tool and how it helps to eliminate the toil [4] due to tasks that are manual, repetitive, automatable, tactical, devoid of enduring value, and that scales linearly as a service grows. The work also involves studying the interfacing capabilities of ansible with tools that helps in monitoring the system metrics and visualize the data captured for analysis. 

The use-case for the project involves automating the deployment of docker container with a TCP Echo Server hosted and a TCP Echo Client, on top of a Linux Virtual Machine. The operations of Linux VM, Docker container and TCP Echo Server are all automated using Ansible as the automation tool. This effort demonstrates the value of automating the repeatable task of deploying the docker containers with a hosted server, in a large scale environment, such as a cloud data center. The use-case also demonstrates the value of using monitoring and analytics tools such as Prometheus and Grafana, respectively,  that can interface with Ansible in the deployed environment. The scope of system parameters captured for monitoring and analysis with the tools is restricted to the TCP statistics such as the number of connections, state of the connections, etc.  There will be a detailed analysis on how Ansible automation combined with monitoring and analytics of the system, can address the problem of site reliability. 
